# Week 7 Blog Post

## Personal Progress

This past week, I finally locked in my selection for Vue with Billy. I am quite excited to get started on working with Vue.js,
and look forward to working with Billy to make some meaningful contributions. So far, I have successfully installed the development
environment after some struggling. I was using npm to install all the dependencies found in the GitHub repository's package.json
like I have done for every other web-based project I've worked on in the past, but for some reason some dependencies simply
weren't installing properly. Even though this was an inconvenience, I was still able to learn several things from Joanna
and Billy, who recommended that I either post an issue or join the Vue Discord, which has a very active community of over 
5000 users.

I finally got the development environment installed when I used Yarn instead of npm - I'm still not sure exactly why
it worked, but it was by suggestion of another user who had the same issue. I started browsing the issue task board
and was happy to see that there were a few issues that were marked **Good First Issue** that were mostly missing path files
and broken links. This week, I will be woring on those issues and I will also become acquainted with the source code of Vue; since
it uses a package called Flow.js, I will have to learn the syntax of the package before I can begin making any meaningful
contributions.

## Wikipedia

Wikipedia is an intimidating open source project to contribute to. Because the traffic to the website is astronomically high,
articles are heavily regulated and new contributors must follow an extremely strict posting guideline if they want even 
a chance of getting their edits or new articles approved.

Because of this, people who contribute to Wikipedia seem to not only be extremely knowledgeable about the field they are
editting, but also are sticklers for organization and formatting. Additionally, because of the adherence to high quality,
huge disagreements can frequently erupt over very small disputes. (e.g. the example we saw in class, corn vs. maize)

The environment of Wikipedia seems very competitive and the standard is very high. While I'm confident in my knowledge of
certain fields, the zero-tolerance policy for mistakes and slew of other moderators and contributors breathing down my neck
would prevent me from becoming a regular contributor to the website. Following that line of logic, I will select articles based on subjects that I am most knowledgeable about because those contributions
will have the highest probability of being approved.

I enjoyed Jimmy Wales's TED talk on the Birth of Wikipedia - in particular, I found it was intriguing that he could step in
any time he wanted to to prevent a large organized group from vandalizing Wikipedia on a large scale. While it is good that
he possesses that ability, it does give him more power than other contributors, which is a little unsettling given that
Wikipedia is supposedly an encyclopedia built by everybody.
