# Week 12 Blog Post

## Group Project Contributions

I mostly spent the past week preparing for our presentation on Monday and finishing up on a last couple few contributions. I was
able to make a couple more documentation fixes, and also submitted a pull request for a Chinese translation. Billy and I also
had the opportunity to attend an NYC meetup for Vue that was happening close to NYU, and we found that it was both informative
and welcoming as a community. One thing I noticed that was very consistent with online open source communities was that 
the in-person community placed a very heavy emphasis on inclusion; in fact, to even attend the meetup, we first had to 
answer questions online regarding community, and during the event, the first half of the meetup was dedicated to how
a community should act and resolve conflict internally.

As for the actual content of the meetup, a lead software engineer for an NYC company gave a lecture on using some of Vue's
advanced features for frontend work, including using CSS, Dynamic Theming, and Dynamic Elements to better handle design
in websites built by Vue.js. It was very interesting to see how powerful the framework was and the depth of mastery that could
be attained. It was also eye-opening to see that nearly everybody at the meetup used Vue.js in some capacity for their jobs!
It goes to further prove Kevin Fleming's point that many companies are choosing to adopt open-source software over proprietary
software because fo the large, regulated communities that contribute together to these projects. This week, after our presentation,
I will continue to look for documentation, translation, and bugfixes that I can work on.
