# Week 9 Blog Post

### Two Lessons

The Cathedral and the Bazaar has a myriad of lessons - I will discuss the first two listed on the course website.

>"Perfection (in design) is achieved not when there is nothing more to add, but rather when there is nothing more to take away."

This statement refers to the design paradigm that software should have: rather than focusing on adding every single
feature possible, software design should focus on adding the necessities and only the bare necessities. Generally, this
is a pretty good model to follow. Software that attempts to overload itself with new, unnecessary features can backfire quickly
lose much of its userbase. A prime example of this is Snapchat, a formerly clean, bare-bones social media app that became
extremely bloated with an overloaded, messy UI and irrelevant tabloid-magazine news. Snapchat quickly fell out of favor because
its designers believed that more features meant better software, when in reality the app was at its peak when there was 
nothing to take away from it.

Of course, there are some caveats to the above statements: many times, useful features that do not detract
from the software's experience can be seamlessly implemented. Instagram is an example of software that implemented additional
features such as Discover while still remaining relevant and true to its original purpose - browsing photos.

>"Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong."

This lesson refers to the fact that many difficult problems developers face can be solved by changing the approach to the
problem entirely. From my limited experience in CS, I agree - many times when doing problem sets or building projects
and debugging, I'll realize many of my errors are because I have fundamentally misunderstood the problem by using an
incorrect data structure or algorithm. Being willing to discard progress made to adopt a new approach can entirely change
the scope of a problem at hand.

### My Favorite Lesson

>6. Treating your users as co-developers is your least-hassle route to rapid code improvement and effective debugging.

This is a great statement and perfectly encapsulates the spirit of software development using the bazaar model and 
open-source development. When building software, it's easy to get caught up in writing code and adding features and lose sight
of who you're building the software for in the first place: the end users. Having a community of users that provide a constant
stream of feedback is imperative for building useful, meaningful software.

A community of users that are developers is invaluable. They can help chime in with useful ideas, give realistic
feedback and goals for features, and even assist in writing some code. In the same way, this statement doesn't only apply
to developers, but also extends to non-technical users. Such users are equally important, as they provide an invaluable
perspective for a product being developed - certain aspects of a project that are obvious to developers can be 
completely overlooked if the developers are not considering the average user's user experience. In this way, the community
of users provides instant, useful feedback from multiple different angles and can quickly improve a project's code and help
debug difficult problems in the codebase.

### Personal Progress to Vue

This week, Billy and I helped get the Vue installation documentation fixed by creating issues and pull requests. I also
helped fix multiple documentation errors present in the documentation in Vue. Next week, I will also be looking at more
documentation errors and looking to help fix some minor code issues present in the issues tab.
