# Week 10 Blog Post

## Kevin Fleming's Talk

Kevin Fleming's talk was both insightful and enjoyable to listen to. I was most interested in the fact that Bloomberg embraces the use of open source software so readily. Many companies that I have previously researched or interviewed for are very cautious when it comes to the use of open source software in their development cycle. This may be because they prefer to use their own proprietary software, or they believe that because open source is mostly contributed to by everyday developers, it is unreliable. However, Fleming showed that Bloomberg uses open source software for a slew of different reasons, ranging from UX Design, unit testing, and cluster computing. 

I was particularly surprised to hear that Bloomberg is even considering replacing some of their proprietary tools with open-source ones for topics like Machine Learning and Quant Computing. I was also surprised to hear about Bloomberg's small subscriber base of 325,000 given their prestige and capital, but after Fleming discussed the niche use of the Bloomberg Terminal and its exorbitant cost, the number made more sense in context.

## Personal Progress

I have become more active in the Vue Discord looking for issues. Currently, I am working on an issue with Billy regarding DOM manipulation within Vue. We have both made significant contributions documentation and installation-wise, and look to make a meaningful contribution to issues as well by the end of the semester. Additionally, since Vue has a large Chinese userbase, I want to begin contributing instructions and translations in Mandarin if possible. This coming week, I will continue working on the code issue with Billy and look into more documentation as well
