# Week 5 Blog Post

### The Cathedral and The Bazaar

The difference between software development following the cathedral model and software development following the bazaar model
is the way that the software is actually planned out. The cathedral model carefully constructs software in a meticulous,
careful manner with a small group of developers until the finished product is released, while the bazaar model is
open to all contributors and releases prototypes early and often. I personally prefer the bazaar model, as the two
models remind me of difference between Waterfall methodology and Agile development, where the latter prioritizes incremental
software building and responsiveness to change. Bazaar model seems very similar, where it is open to all contributors and is
very adaptable to change - having many contributors can be chaotic, but it is also extremely useful in getting feedback
for the project.

Out of the 19 "lessons" that The Cathedral and The Bazaar contains, I enjoyed reading **Release Early, Release Often** and
**How Many Eyeballs Tame Complexity** because they encapsulate the benefits of the bazaar method most concisely. 

Release Early, Release Often says the following:

>Linus's innovation wasn't so much in doing quick-turnaround releases incorporating lots of user
>feedback (something like this had been Unix-world tradition for a long time), but in scaling it
>up to a level of intensity that matched the complexity of what he was developing. In those 
>early times (around 1991) it wasn't unknown for him to release a new kernel more than once a day!
>Because he cultivated his base of co-developers and leveraged the Internet for collaboration harder 
>than anyone else, this worked.

While other developers had done early beta releases to incorporate user feedback, Torvalds took the concept to the next level
by basing his entire development principle around it and leveraged his community to improve his project, which is what the
bazaar method relies on.

Similarly, How Many Eyeballs Tame Complexity builds upon the idea of community:

>Open-source development breaks this bind, making it far easier for tester and developer to develop a shared
>representation grounded in the actual source code and to communicate effectively about it. Practically,
>there is a huge difference in leverage for the developer between the kind of bug report that just reports
>externally-visible symptoms and the kind that hooks directly to the developer's source-code–based mental
>representation of the program.

Non-technical end users or testers may not be able to accurately give good feedback to developers. However, when an open-source
community consists of normal users and actual developers alike, the community can come together to build upon the project
and fix its flaws better via collaborating through user experience and developers' knowledge.

### Free vs. Open
