# Week 1 Blog Post

## What is Open Source? 

An open source project is one that can anyone across the world can freely contribute to. These projects are typically large in scale and require the work of many different contributors to complete and refine. 

Open source and closed source have their differences; the open source model is very useful because many people can contribute to it, but it is also difficult to keep track of for that same reason. These projects typically require contributions to be monitored or reverted if changes are useless or malicious in nature. On the other hand, the closed source model is useful because only certain (presumably qualified) people are able to contribute to such projects, but larger projects may need more contributors.

## Projects

Like many people, I have interacted with open source projects before. Here are a few of them:

**2048**: 2048 is a popular JavaScript-based browser game that enjoyed extreme popularity in 2014. Today, it is a staple for many Android and iOS users. I use it because it's an intuitive, responsive well-made game; despite it being open-source, there are no signs of clunkiness or indications of inexperienced developers. Its alternatives are any of the numerous closed-source mobile and web-based games available.

**Android**: The Android operating system is developed by Google and used by billions of mobile devices across the world including smartphones and tablets. I use it because it is extremely customizable - modifying Android devices and developing Android apps is very easy compared to its counterpart iOS. The alternative to Android is, of course, iOS.

**VLC**: VLC Media Player is a media player developed by the VideoLAN project. I use it because it is faster and more responsive than many built-in media players such as Microsoft's Windows Media Player and Apple's Preview, and supports many more file formats than its counterparts, which are proprietary software like WMP, Preview, and QuickTime.

**WordPress**: WordPress is an open-source website management service, usually used for blogging. It is currently used by over 60 million websites, and is intuitive and easy to use, providing beautiful templates without needing front-end web development experience. I have used it in the past for web development internships. Its alternatives include other website management services such as Django. 
