# Week 5 Blog Post

## Licensing

2048's License uses The MIT License, which essentially allows any person to download the game's source code
and modify, copy, distribute, or even sell it without restriction. It also exempts the developers from any damages or problems
that users will experience while attemping to do so.

## Installing the development environment

Installing the development environment for 2048 is fairly simple, because it's just a JavaScript-based web browser game.
After forking the repository, I was able to clone it to my own machine and create a branch to make changes to the source code.

The instructions were simple but detailed enough to cover any uncertainties; the developers are looking for simple fixes like changes to spelling and documentation, but nothing that will fundamentally change the way the game feels or plays, such as changes to the point system, the controls, or the appearance of the tiles and the game board. There are also specific guidelines to editing code. For example, for modifying CSS files, Ruby must be installed and then the sass gem must also be installed. The project's JavaScript code uses 2-space indentation.

The instructions are quite clear and delineate exactly what will and will not be accepted. Unfortunately, since the scope of the project is pretty small, there's not too much else that can be done, but if the project were a bit bigger, the contribution guidelines are quite clear and would greatly assist anyone trying to make contributions.
