# Week 5 Blog Post

### The Cathedral and The Bazaar

The difference between software development following the cathedral model and software development following the bazaar model
is the way that the software is actually planned out. The cathedral model carefully constructs software in a meticulous,
careful manner with a small group of developers until the finished product is released, while the bazaar model is
open to all contributors and releases prototypes early and often. I personally prefer the bazaar model, as the two
models remind me of difference between Waterfall methodology and Agile development, where the latter prioritizes incremental
software building and responsiveness to change. Bazaar model seems very similar, where it is open to all contributors and is
very adaptable to change - having many contributors can be chaotic, but it is also extremely useful in getting feedback
for the project.

Out of the 19 "lessons" that The Cathedral and The Bazaar contains, I enjoyed reading **Release Early, Release Often** and
**How Many Eyeballs Tame Complexity** because they encapsulate the benefits of the bazaar method most concisely. 

Release Early, Release Often says the following:

>Linus's innovation wasn't so much in doing quick-turnaround releases incorporating lots of user
>feedback (something like this had been Unix-world tradition for a long time), but in scaling it
>up to a level of intensity that matched the complexity of what he was developing. In those 
>early times (around 1991) it wasn't unknown for him to release a new kernel more than once a day!
>Because he cultivated his base of co-developers and leveraged the Internet for collaboration harder 
>than anyone else, this worked.

While other developers had done early beta releases to incorporate user feedback, Torvalds took the concept to the next level
by basing his entire development principle around it and leveraged his community to improve his project, which is what the
bazaar method relies on.

Similarly, How Many Eyeballs Tame Complexity builds upon the idea of community:

>Open-source development breaks this bind, making it far easier for tester and developer to develop a shared
>representation grounded in the actual source code and to communicate effectively about it. Practically,
>there is a huge difference in leverage for the developer between the kind of bug report that just reports
>externally-visible symptoms and the kind that hooks directly to the developer's source-code–based mental
>representation of the program.

Non-technical end users or testers may not be able to accurately give good feedback to developers. However, when an open-source
community consists of normal users and actual developers alike, the community can come together to build upon the project
and fix its flaws better via collaborating through user experience and developers' knowledge.

### Free vs. Open

"Free" and "Open" software are similar, but have vital differences. They are similar because their values are mostly aligned - they disagree with the use of proprietary software and advocate for the widespread contribution and use of the software. However, free software diverges from open source software because it values the complete unrestricted capability of using and modifying the software. Some open source project licenses disallow modified versions from being run, and if this is the case, then even if the project is open source it cannot qualify as free software.

### Personal Progress

I submitted an issue regarding the installation problems that I had a couple weeks ago. Interestingly enough, I was not the only person to have struggled with this problem, and received support from a couple other users. Even though the issue was closed down, I managed to have a discussion with one of the main contributors and politely pointed out that their contributions page was outdated and misleading, which lead to it getting revised. I learned that contributing to open source doesn't necessarily mean code contributions or even bugfixes need to be made - this was a mostly nontechnical problem yet it presented a huge hurdle for new users trying to get into contributing to Vue.

Looking forward, I am working on a code issue with Billy. One of the setters for the datafields is missing some functionality that could improve its responsiveness by adding an additional argument. We're working on figuring out what the function actually does right now, but once we do, the issue doesn't look impossible to fix, and is a good place to start. There are also a plethora of smaller issue requests that look doable that we will be investigating this week as well.
