# Week 6 Blog Post

Using open source software in projects for social good and humanitarian goals is a fantastic application of the open source
model. Open source is meant to be collaborative and contribution-based in nature, and using that mantra as a model to perform
humanitarian acts is intuitive and supportive of open source's mission.

In terms of getting involved, the difficulty level varies greatly. While most HFOSS projects emphasize lowering the difficulty
bar so people can quickly and meaningfully contribute, the context of the project still plays a large role in contribution 
difficulty. Some projects, for example, are very time-sensitive: situations such as disaster relief, network mapping, and
identification of missing people are situations where every second counts, and contributors must be able to quickly integrate
changes and respond to new developments on the fly. In this case, even though the barrier for entry might be low because
the software is easy to use, contributors need to be cautious because being unacquainted with a project and making meaningless
contribution could cost money, time, and even lives. However, for projects less time-sensitive such as animal conservation
efforts, these projects are quite easy because the project owners need a lot of help and are happy to have new contributors
and typically will lower the difficulty of contribution.

If the contributor is concerned about his or her own reputation, such projects can bring prestige, as humanitarian efforts are
quite laudable. I would certainly want to be involved in a humanitarian project not for the influence it brings, but rather
the ways I would be able to help other people.

[My project evaluation for for CodeAlliance can be found here.](CodeAlliance_Evaluation.md)
